Now formal communication is more structured,
more professional,
and typically done in accordance with rules of a convention or etiquette.
It is suitable for a professional or important situation or occasion.
For example,
contrast a simple 10 minute standup with a 1 hour presentation to your CEO.
One is quick and informal,
while the other is maybe very formal and structured to better ensure
you get your message across and appear professional.
I would suggest that the more senior the audience,
the more attention you should spend ensuring you have a
solid business oriented communication.
Okay,
now let's look at four methods of formal communication that
you need in your new job as a manager.
Here are my key formal communication methods that you can use every day.
Presentations, and not just any old presentation, but effective presentations.
Meetings, yes meetings can be boring, well maybe I can't solve that totally,
but we will talk about how to have a meaningful and productive meeting.
Emails, now these will be the formal emails.
Now they maybe a thing of the past, but not for me.
We will discuss just how to write a good business email.
And lastly, status reporting, this is critical and so often overlooked,
especially with your customers.
Let's see how we can make useful status reports very easily. Okay, let's dive into each.